One dimensional (single column z) with ideal surface
==================================================================

Some of the most important advantages to use vertical 1D atmospheric simulations are :

* **Simplicity :** simpler and require fewer computing resources than 2D or 3D models.

* **Study vertical processes and surface-atmosphère interactions :** focus on vertical processes in the atmosphere, such as convection, cloud formation, and heat and moisture exchange without the complexity of horizontal advection.

* **Parameterisation development and testing :** used to develop and test new physical parameterisations (e.g. for clouds, precipitation or radiation) before they are integrated into more complex models.

To perform a 1D simulation with Meso-NH you need only to prepare the initial conditions and run the model using the :ref:`prep_ideal_case` and :ref:`mesonh` executables respectively. These two steps are described in the following sections :

Prepare initial condition (:ref:`prep_ideal_case`)
------------------------------------------------------------------

* Pour les cas 1D, pas besoin de PGD généralement. On peut tout faire avec le programme PREP_IDEAL_CASE.

* Présentation d'un cas typique en décrivant la namelist et en renvoyant vers :ref:`prep_ideal_case` pour les gens qui veulent adapter. Préciser les points importants pour le 1D.

.. note::

   Avoir une namelist simplifiée, la plus light possible.

Launch the simulation (:ref:`mesonh`)
-----------------------------------------------------------------

* Présenter une namelist typique d'une simulation en 1D et la décrire.

.. note::

   Avoir une namelist simplifiée, la plus light possible.

Plot results
-----------------------------------------------------------------

* Afficher un petit tracé rapide du run

Other examples
-----------------------------------------------------------------

* Lien vers les cas 1D du :ref:`cases_catalogue`
